- MALE ANNOUNCER: Previously
on Mayor of Kingstown...
- I'm sorry about dinner.
Been a long day.
- Can I tell you something?
It'll make you feel better,
I promise.
- Where's Iris?
- MILO: Come to Kingstown.
- Why?
- MILO: Because I told you to.
- POLICE CAPTAIN: Better yet,
this maggot doesn't make it
to court.
- You guys, do you know
what you're asking?
Carlos.
- I'm here about the tweaker
who blew up his old lady
and kid.
5-O is gonna come down hard
on everyone for this.
They don't know who put
in the tip.
- INMATES: [yelling]
- DUKE: Mike, they should
kill him when they find him.
Much as I'd love free reign,
we all know this won't be free
for anybody.
- KYLE: Tell me he don't deserve
it, Mike, we'll walk away.
- MIKE: Their motivation is so
you owe them.
You all owe them.
They're gonna look the other
way on this.
As long as everybody's in.
Just make a big mess in there.
Who can pin what on who,
right?
- BUNNY: How far the other
way they gonna look?
- Far.
- ♪
♪
- MIKE: [panting]
- [moaning]
- I cancelled your CI order.
- Like I give a shit.
- Don't be a dick about it.
- I'm just telling you.
I don't care.
Wanna get some food in the
food court?
- [laughing]
- MIKE: What do you say?
- You out of your mind?
- What?
- I can't be seen in public
with you.
- Well--
- [phone ringing]
- Shit.
I gotta go.
What's up?
- REBECCA: You got a call
from a Carlos.
He wants to see you.
- So when's he coming in?
- REBECCA: Doesn't want to
meet at the office.
I'll text you his number.
And someone called from
Peterford Trucking,
said you'd know
what it was about?
- Yeah, alright.
- ♪
- MARIAM: And what is the
significance of the South Pass?
Yes, Karen.
- KAREN: It was a faster and
easier path
to the Columbia River Valley.
- MARIAM:
Well, it was not faster.
And easier isn't the best
choice of words.
It was possible,
but just barely.
Why is the discovery
of the South Pass
through the Rockies so
significant?
Yes.
- It led to the discovery of
the Green River Valley
and the Bear River, which led
to the Great Salt Lake.
- Yes, it opened the west
to development, exploration,
settlement.
The resources taken from the
west transformed this country
from a collection of colonies
to the greatest empire
the world has ever known.
It is impossible to overstate
the impact
of Jedidiah Smith's discovery.
Would someone else have
found it?
Yes.
But would the results have
been the same?
Would the boundaries
of this country be the same
had he failed that winter?
This was the dawn of America
the superpower
and the price was everyone
and everything in her way.
Michael.
- Hey, just wanted to say,
you know,
sorry for the dinner
the other night.
- Have you spoken to Kyle?
- Yeah.
- Did he tell you?
- Tell me what?
- Then you haven't spoken
to him.
- Yeah, I talk to him every
day, Mom.
What?!
What, what?!
The fuck did I do?!
- Tracy's pregnant.
- Great.
That's great news.
- I don't want another
generation of this family
to be raised by a widow.
And Kyle has an opportunity to
work for the state
where it's less likely that
his wife becomes one.
Help him make the right
decision.
- Which is what?
- [chuckles]
You're so much like your father.
- That explains the left hook.
- No, no, no, no.
That explains the heartbreak.
- ♪
- [phone ringing]
- What?
- BUNNY: You ain't near White
Castle, is ya?
- Not in the mood, Bunny.
- Gotta talk, man,
when can you come by?
- Let's just talk now.
- BUNNY: We're on motherfucking
cell phones, man!
Why you acting like this your
first day on the job?
- MIKE: Bunny, there is an FBI
van not 200 yards
from you with a satellite
listening to every thing
you fucking say, alright?
What difference does it make
if we're on the phone or not?
- Motherfucker, I'm trying to
help your pale ass out!
Come on!
- Fuck it!
Fine, I'm coming.
- ♪
- [tires screeching]
- Why you come up in this
motherfucker screechin' tires
and shit, man?
- What's the fucking emergency?
- BUNNY: Slow yourself, man.
Sit down, sit down.
- What?
- BUNNY: Relax, man.
Damn, man,
you Irish is wound tight.
- [Snoop Dog singing
"Gin and Juice"]
♪ While you motherfuckers
bounce ♪
♪ Rolling down the street
smoking 'indo ♪
- Think I ain't got shit
covered?
- No, they're just gonna move.
- You need to relax, bruh.
- It's been a long day.
- [chuckles]
Well now you gotta pace
yourself, baby.
It's fucking noon.
- Alright, well, I'm here.
- Boys want
some candy sent over.
- For what?
- For killing that cracker.
- You know I can't do that.
- They made a deal.
- Yeah, well, let's measure
this out here.
People start asking for this,
and asking for that
and no one's gonna get
nothing, okay?
So let's start with something
like more time in the yard
or a TV in the lunchroom.
- I don't wanna be in the middle
of this shit neither, aight?
But these fools out here,
they feeling their oats.
- Uniforms are gonna ease up
on everybody.
We're not gonna check the
mail so well,
not gonna frisk
their ladies as good
when they come to visit,
but that's it.
The noose is gonna get looser.
Period.
- We gonna pay for this shit,
man.
You and me both.
How the fuck I'mma explain
"wait till next week"
to a motherfucker who don't
give a fuck if there is one.
- They did something that
everybody wanted,
and it will be rewarded.
But they can't ask.
- I told 'em to play 'cause
you asked.
You.
You asked me.
- Gotta make em understand,
Bunny.
Make 'em understand.
You're gonna have to distance
yourself from this shit.
- Distance?
How the fuck I'mma do that?!
I can't go 10 blocks without a
motherfucker trying to kill me.
Where I'mma go, huh?
Shit.
- ♪
- [phone ringing]
- Yeah.
- DUKE: I called you.
- You're on the list.
- DUKE: Move me to the top.
- Excuse me?
- DUKE: I'm not asking,
I'm telling you.
- Well, in that case,
I'll be right there.
- [phone ringing]
- McClusky's Outreach.
- MIKE: I'm not making it in
to the office today.
- REBECCA: Only one person
here, I'll have her come back.
- Who is it?
- Don't know.
She's sitting right here.
- Alright, tomorrow at the
end of the day.
- REBECCA: Okay, I'll have
her come back at 5.
Carlos called again.
- K.
- Sorry hon, he got called away.
Can you come back tomorrow?
- Five?
I'll come back then.
Hey, you're really beautiful.
- Thank you.
That made my day.
- You are.
- ♪
- [horn honking]
- Where is he?
- Who?
- Who do you fucking think?
- In his office.
- K.
You're at the top of the list,
Pete.
- It's quite a mess
you've made here.
- MIKE: Yeah, well everybody's
gonna see the mess I can make.
- I told you how to handle this.
You didn't listen.
- I don't make that decision.
You know that.
- It's your decision now.
- Oh, is it?
Is it really?
I can just walk away from
this whole fucking shit show,
right?
You can just spout your bullshit
to the police.
How long do you think it
would take for SWAT
to show up in your living room
and to shut down
the fucking mall so tight they
won't see the sun?
- You don't even know what
we want.
- I know how you asked.
Everyone's pushing me,
everyone.
Got their fucking head--
the guy's not even in the
ground a fucking week!
Pete, you're smart enough to
know this is not
how we move forward.
- We can't be last in line,
brother.
- Listen to me,
there's no fucking line
'cause they're not handing
anything out.
Nothing.
The guards are gonna loosen
their grip
if everyone just calms
the fuck down.
That's it, that's all I got.
I mean, look, don't lose
fucking sight
of what I do here, okay?
I don't take sides.
This is what I know, you're
outnumbered 10 to 1 inside,
right? You need the guards
more than anybody.
So status quo is your
fucking friend.
And just be the guy, just
be the guy that doesn't ask
for anything and then you'll
be the only
that gets something.
And don't tell me what to do
again ever.
Come on.
- ♪
- Evening.
Hey, don't take offense to
that, it's not you.
I know it looks bad.
Shit.
- [bear grunting]
- MIKE: What are you doing here?
- KYLE: Woah!
Oh, Jesus!
Fuck, Mike!
- Yeah.
- [groans]
- You just show up?
- What do you expect me to do,
send fucking smoke signals?
There's no cell service up here.
God, you scared the shit out
of me.
- Sorry, bud.
- What are you doing hiding
in the fucking trees
like a Vietnam vet, Mike?
- MIKE: Been one of those days.
- KYLE: Guess so.
Does it freak the bear out?
- MIKE: He doesn't understand
it.
- KYLE: I don't understand it.
- MIKE: [grunting]
You don't understand the
meaning behind it,
but you know what it is.
Hey, what are you guys gonna do?
- KYLE: I don't know.
Troopers offered me a shield.
- What division?
- Narco.
Southwest division, though.
Grand Rapids to the border
and up to Muskegon.
They'd start me in the field
office in Benton Harbor.
- Right by the water?
- Well, yeah.
We'd be doing both highways
and the lake.
- Doesn't feel safer, does it?
Didn't you apply for the
commercial transportation
crimes?
- I did. Their Narc department
is folded in.
And, you know how we do
shit here: Robbery, Homicide,
and Narcotics is all one
division.
Plus, fucking Kingstown's
basically Beirut so...
Offered me the promotion.
- What's the pay?
- 70. To start.
- Really?
- I know.
- God damn, Kyle.
That's a lot of money, man.
That is a lot of money.
- Yeah.
- MIKE: But it's a different
deal, right?
People smuggling shit
from up north,
they're organized,
they're smart.
That's a dangerous
combination.
- I know, but I make 45
grand a year here.
Plus Tracy,
she's still in school.
It's like the only place I can
afford a fucking house
is in the Fruit Belt.
- [chuckling]
Fuck, hey man...
Fucking good opportunity, right?
Just gotta be careful.
I don't think Kingstown has
prepared you enough
for that kind of deal, man.
We got a lot of criminals, but
there's only a few good ones.
Those people that move
product from Canada
are professionals, man.
Look what happened to Jimmy,
that can happen anywhere,
but out there, man, it's...
There's a reason why that
job's available.
- That doesn't really worry me.
I gotta say, though.
You know, as much as we
talk about get out, get out...
This opportunity comes and...
[groans]
Just having a, I'm having a
lot of trouble taking it.
- Yeah.
- Plus, Benton Harbor?
It's like 10,000 people.
And I don't know, I just,
I don't think that this is it.
- Fuck.
You don't gotta tell me, man.
- ♪
- REBECCA: Mike, you okay?
- What's up?
- You tell me.
You don't come to the office
for days,
you don't return calls.
I mean...
Unless you got the winning
ticket, I don't see
how this place makes money
if you don't take on clients.
- Yeah, so we got money
problems?
- Mike, this place ain't exactly
a cash cow.
We need work.
That pays.
- Okay.
Today we take on clients.
Alright?
- REBECCA: Well, nobody
out there now.
- Soon enough.
- What would happen if I put
a match to that coffee?
- You'd burn your hand.
- Look, I don't think I'm one
to give advice,
but what made Mitch so good
was he never took it personal,
you know?
- Well, I make no pretense
about being good at this.
- That's not what I meant.
- Yeah, I know.
I'm not offended.
I appreciate your concern and
I'm so happy you stayed on,
because I couldn't do any of
this shit without you.
But what I put in my coffee
is my fucking business.
- Fair enough.
- MIKE: Okay.
- [phone ringing]
- ♪
- [talking indistinctly]
- Hey, walking the yard.
Yeah, I'll call you in five.
Okay.
- ♪
- [phone ringing]
- Yeah?
- ED: Hey, what's up, buddy?
- MIKE: How are things going
over there?
- Oh, you know,
big love-fest.
- Yeah, it's not gonna last.
We should talk.
- ED: Okay, the Red Carriage?
- No, just us.
- Alright, I can meet you at
the Tugboat in about an hour.
- MIKE: Okay, Tug it is.
- ♪
- ED: When I said
meet at the Tugboat,
I didn't mean on it, Mike.
- MIKE: Reminds me of our youth.
- ED: [chuckles]
It's a fucking miracle none of
us fell off.
- Or none of us jumped.
- ED: Only a miracle you didn't.
Come on, man,
I'm not going up there.
Come down.
- Alright, I'm coming down.
- Jesus Christ.
- MIKE: [sighs]
Alright look,
I got everybody fucking
breathing down
my neck over this God damn
Kenny thing.
- ED: About what?
- MIKE: They want their favors.
- What kind of favors?
- The unreasonable kind.
- Who?
- All of 'em.
- God, those motherfuckers!
God damnit.
We haven't tossed one fucking
cell, Mike!
It's been a God damn
summer camp.
- Yeah, I know.
They don't want their
privileges though, Ed. Alright?
They want their drugs, they
want their money. Period.
- No, no!
God damn.
What are you gonna do?
- MIKE: I gotta get word to
the Mexicans still,
but I am making it perfectly
clear that none of this shit
is gonna fly, none of it.
- Well, I know what I want
to do. Motherfuckers.
What do you think we should do?
- Just remind them
of what it used to be like.
How's that?
- Bet your fucking ass.
- The leaders.
Just hit the leaders.
- Let's have Ian turn that
psycho in SWAT
loose on the outside.
- No, we gotta save that
ace for later.
Ed, you gotta hit them and
hit 'em hard, okay?
It's for their own God damn
good.
- ED: I don't give a shit
what's good for them.
That's your job, Mike.
I'll see you.
- Yup.
- ♪
- [chatting indistinctly]
- TYSON: Man, I'm hungry
as a motherfucker.
- Bitch, you lucky I ain't got
you scrubbing this shit.
- TYSON: [laughing]
Come on, man!
I'm about to eat these
motherfuckin Ramens dry.
- GUARD: This is the second
time.
There will not be a third.
- The fuck?
Y'all got the wrong cell, cuz.
[grunting]
- GUARD: Get the fuck up!
- This shit burn.
- GUARD: Yes,
that's what the soap is for.
The soap will counter the
effects of the pepper spray,
but you must rub it over your
face!
- What'd you learn today?
Hmm?
Everything you have, I gave you.
And now I'm taking it all back.
- Why?
- Because you asked for more.
Put him in ad seg.
- MIKE: What's up?
- Hey, bud.
No, I need you to limit the
scope to clothing.
Fuck it, like I'm gonna listen
to the rest of that.
You had lunch?
- Hey. Yeah, right here.
I need Carlos Jimenez.
- Carlos runs the Locos, right?
- MIKE: Yeah.
- I got a warrant for this
fucker somewhere.
- What for?
- IAN: Child support payments.
- What's it doing on your desk?
- He's ganged up...
They'll send me anything.
They'll send fucking parking
tickets here if they bang.
Anything to try and build
a case against 'em.
Fucking hell.
Look at that, Mike.
He was in with you.
Convicted of manslaughter
three years in a row
and only got three years
added?
Jesus Christ, that's a good
lawyer.
- Where is he?
- IAN: Well, there is no
current address.
Last known is an aunt on
Grape Street, 3220.
I got a number here.
Alright, let me see.
- MIKE: Carlos, are you there?
- That fucking figures.
Keno!
- KENO: What's up?
- Come here.
Look, we're trying to find this
clown.
We got a last known address,
aunt only speaks Spanish.
- Take the fucking class
every Tuesday and Thursday.
- Keno, I'm a fucking optimist.
I keep thinking that the
Mexicans are gonna stop
committing crimes
and I won't have to.
- Just dial the number, dick.
- Gracias.
- [phone ringing]
- Just take the class.
- Tuesday--
- What else you gonna do?
- Bueno. Buscando para
Carlos pero,
no tengo el numero nuevo,
Senora.
Mande?
Trabajo en el Goodyear
y su carro esta listo.
Gracias.
Andale pues.
He's at the ranch.
- Ah, thanks man.
- Fuck is a ranch?
- MIKE: It's over off Persimmon,
it's where they got their dogs
they fight in there.
- You have fun with that.
- MIKE: Yeah.
Hey look, if you see him,
pick him up on that warrant.
- IAN: What's going on?
- They all got their hand out.
- Fucking idiots.
Are you keeping
those school kids in line?
- MIKE: Yeah.
- IAN: Well, you let me know
if you need any help.
- MIKE: Thanks.
- ♪
- [buzzing]
- [grunting]
- [alarm blaring]
- Now we're gonna be stuck
here all goddamn day.
- That hardly seems relevant,
don't you think?
- Tell that to my children when
day care lets them out
and I'm not there to pick
them up.
Relevant.
[sighs]
- GUARD: Stay down!
- GUARD: Eyes down!
- Relevant.
Who the fuck do you think
you are?
- ♪
- Thought I heard you.
- What's up?
- Your five o'clock is here.
- Shit.
Alright, come on.
Alright.
- Mike?
- Yeah, yeah.
Have a seat.
You fly in from Miami?
- [giggles]
Why would you ask me that?
- You're dressed for the beach.
- Well, I wanted to make a
good impression.
- Okay.
So, so who sent you?
- Milo.
He's my boss.
- And what can I do for Milo?
- Did you guys have a fight?
Yeah, I figured.
I mean, it seems like
he wants to make it up.
He told me to come here
and make sure you're not mad
at him.
- Hmm.
And how are you going
to do that?
- Well, you could fuck me.
Would that make you happy?
- Yeah.
Know what makes me mad?
- What?
- When a Russian gangster
sends a 20-year-old hooker
to come seduce me
into something
that doesn't benefit me.
- I'm 22.
- Yeah, get the fuck out of
my office.
[scoffs]
- I wasn't rude to you.
So, so I'll just tell Milo
you don't want to make up?
- You do that.
- Okay.
Well, good night.
[sighs]
I was telling the truth.
He just told me to make you
happy.
- I'm gonna give you a year.
- A year to what?
- Live.
- Why would you say that?
- What's your name?
- Iris.
- Where you from?
- I flew in from New York.
- No, where are you from from?
- That's none of your business.
- Okay, okay look,
I get paid to give advice
so I'm gonna give you some.
Okay, the food chain here?
A lot of fucking wolves,
and just a few rabbits.
So wherever you're from,
you should go back.
You won't make it here.
- You calling me a rabbit?
- I am.
- You know,
I'm stronger than you think.
[sniffles]
- No, you're not.
- What do I tell Milo?
- You should tell Milo
we had fun.
- [chuckles]
You know, we could've.
Thank you.
[sniffles]
- [sighs]
- ♪
- Jesus.
- MIKE: Knock-knock.
- [dog barking]
- Bullshit!
Sit, sit, sit motherfucker, sit!
What the fuck, homes?
- Where's Carlos?
- Who?
- Let's not play this game.
- You better step off before
I let Bullshit go to work.
- I'm just here looking for
Carlos.
- CHAVEZ: Bullshit, sit!
- [dogs barking]
- You running shit now,
is that it?
Alright, if you see Carlos
can you just give him this?
- Bullshit, down!
- This is the last time I'm
gonna ask.
Where the fuck is Carlos?
- He got picked up.
Downtown.
- MIKE: Is that right?
What do you mean?
He got pinched?
- A warrant.
- [dog barking]
- Bullshit, sit!
Bullshit!
- ♪
- [phone ringing]
- Hey, got you a present.
- MIKE: Yeah, I heard.
Can you give him to me?
- Hell yeah, for the unpaid
child support.
- How much?
- IAN: 3,700 bucks.
- Jesus, really?
- [chuckling]
Mike, this guy's a fucking
deadbeat, don't look at me.
- Where are you?
- IAN: Waiting for your brother
to bring me a slice of fucking
pepperoni, he's taking forever.
- MIKE: Can I post bond?
- Well, it's a bench warrant.
You gotta pay the whole
thing or it goes to the judge.
- You take plastic?
- IAN: Front desk does.
- Alright.
- Hey Mike, call your brother
and tell him to hurry up
with my slice.
- ♪
- [phone buzzing]
- Hey.
- Ian wants his pizza.
- Yeah.
- MIKE: What?
- KYLE: Guess.
- Someone casing the joint?
- Ding, ding, ding.
- MIKE: Is he close to you?
- KYLE: Yeah, pretty close.
- MIKE: Just one?
- KYLE: Two would've tossed
it by now.
- Toss him.
- Just biding my time.
- MIKE: Is there a back
entrance?
- Yeah.
- Alright, look,
I'm gonna send Ian through.
- That would be appreciated.
- [phone ringing]
- IAN: What?
- Someone's waiting to pop it.
There's an entrance in the
back alley.
- Fuck, I can't even get dinner
in this fucking town.
- MIKE: Yeah.
Let me know it all works out,
okay?
- IAN: Yeah, will do.
- [phone buzzing]
- Yeah.
- Kyle, I'm out back.
- KYLE: Pretty crowded in here.
- IAN: Great.
- KYLE: Yeah.
- IAN: I'm right outside.
Just hit send as soon as it
clears out in there.
- KYLE: Gonna have to eat
your pepperoni.
- Soon as it clears out,
hit send.
- ♪
- Jimenez, Carlos.
You posted, let's go.
- ♪
- You didn't call me back.
- You owe me four grand.
Want a ride?
- Do I?
- I don't know, it's up to you.
- I'm good.
- Look, I know we didn't
know each other very well.
But what you see is what you
get with me.
I don't take sides.
- I remember when you did.
- Inside is different.
- We did you a favor.
- You did them a favor.
I told you not to.
- This ain't how shit works,
they don't get to lean on us
all day and night, then come
hat in hand,
asking for the same favor they
punish us for.
- MIKE: I just don't know
how that surprises anyone.
What more can they do,
Carlos?
It's easier to get drugs inside
than you can
on the fucking street.
You have a tattoo parlor
on the yard.
Anything you need inside,
you already have.
They play their game and you
play yours.
I don't know what the fuck
you think they were gonna do,
just unlock the fucking
front gate?
- Chavez said, "Once you
educate a people,
"you can not make them
unlearn.
We have seen the future,
and the future is ours."
- [chuckling]
You're quoting oppressed
migrant workers now, are you?
You've never had a God
damn job in your life,
you're a drug dealer and
a thief.
Don't you give me your
God damn quotes
until you clean out your
closet of all
the old ladies' DVD players.
- I remember when you ran
the yard
for those peckerwoods,
back when there was enough
white inside to make
a difference.
You alone now, but you still
talk the same shit.
Nobody to back you up.
- Everyone's my back-up.
That's just the thing,
see, everyone.
Matter of fact, I run with
the biggest gang in the city,
the ones with the fucking
badges.
Look, everything I'm telling
you, everything I'm doing,
is for your own good
and you fucking know it.
But Carlos, you wanna press,
the guards are gonna
come down hard.
The police, they're gonna
rain hell on you.
You want to wake that beast?
- We're old men in this game,
you and me.
I can eat my pride,
but these young bucks?
[chuckles] It's gonna be
a hard pill to swallow.
- Yeah, well they don't have
a fucking choice, alright?
The only thing to decide here
is who's gonna shove it
down their damn throat.
It's gonna taste
better if you do it.
- They shoulda never made
the deal.
- They never did.
You never lied before?
- Different when they're told
to you.
- Funny how that works,
isn't it?
- ♪
- [gunshot firing]
- Fuck!
- You okay?
- KYLE: You hit?
- Fuck, I'm good!
- I'm hit. I'm hit, sir.
- Shut the fuck up!
Fuck!
- [heavy breathing]
- [sobbing]
I hate this city.
- ♪
- MIKE: They walked into a
drug deal.
- MAN: They find drugs on
the victim?
- Not yet.
- MILO: So, she needs a cover.
- Can she dance?
- IRIS: I'm selling the
promise of a dance.
- They're gonna want more
from you.
- I'm spoken for.
- By who?
- Mike McClusky.
- I've got a client for you.
- MAN: You're familiar with
my daughter's case.
She was kidnapped and killed
and God knows what else.
- What would you like me
to do, Mr. Chalke?
- BUNNY: The answer is
inside the walls, not outside.
And they ain't careful, they're
gonna wake the beast.
- ♪